Okay, now we've seen all the key components to get our computer running. The
last thing we'll go over is how our devices talk to each other. We know how
programs execute from our hard drive to our CPU, but how do other things like a
mouse click or a keyboard press get sent to our CPU for processing? These are
fairly basic devices, they don't contain any instructions that our CPU knows how
to read. If you just clicked on the key from your keyboard, you'd only be
sending a byte to the CPU. The CPU doesn't know what this is, because it doesn't
have instructions on how to deal with it. Turns out our devices also use
programs to tell the CPU how to run them. These programs are called services or
drivers. The drivers contain the instructions our CPU needs to understand
external devices like keyboards, webcams, printers. Our CPU doesn't know that
there is a device that it can talk to, so it has to connect to something called
the BIOS, or basic input output services. The BIOS is software that helps
initialize the hardware in our computer and gets our operating system up and
running. Unlike the programs, you're probably used to running a web browser or
operating system. The BIOS isn't stored on a hard drive. Our motherboard stores
the BIOS in a special type of memory called, the read-only memory chip, or ROM
chip. Unlike RAM, ROM is non-volatile, meaning it won't erase the data if the
computer is turned off. Once the operating system loads, we're able to load
drivers from non-essential devices, directly from the hard drive. In today's
system, there is another player for BIOS called UEFI, which stands for Unified
Extensible Firmware Interface. UEFI performs the same function of starting your
computer as a traditional BIOS. But it's more modern and has better
compatibility and support for newer hardware. Most hardware out there today
comes with UEFI built in. Eventually, UEFI will become the predominant BIOS.
When you turn on a computer, you might notice a beeping from time to time. How
computers run a test to make sure all the hardware is working correctly. This is
called a Power On Self Test or POST. And then BIOS runs it when you boot up your
computer. The POST figures out what hardware is on the computer. So it happens
before the BIOS initializes any hardware or loads up essential drivers. If there
is an issue with anything at that point, there is no way to display it on the
screen, since things like the video driver haven't been loaded. Instead, the
computer can usually produce a series of beeps, almost like Morse code, which
will help identify the problem. Different manufacturers have different beep
codes. So, if your computer successfully boots up, you may hear a single beep.
If you hear two beeps, it could mean a POST error. It's best to refer to your
motherboard manual to find out what each code means. Also, you should know that
not all machines have built-in speakers, so don't worry if your computer boots
without a beep. If it does have a built-in speaker, being able to distinguish
what the beep codes mean is an extremely helpful tool when troubleshooting boot
issues. One last thing, we will discuss are BIOS settings. There is a special
chip on our motherboard called the CMOS chip. It stores basic data about booting
your computer like the date, time and how you wanted to start up. You can change
these settings by booting into CMOS or BIOS setting menu. It varies in different
computers, but usually when you boot the computer, there will be a quick screen
that tells you what button to push to get into the settings. From there, you can
change the basic BIOS settings of your machine. An an IT support role, you might
interact with the BIOS more often than you think. BIOS settings control which
devices to boot to and in an IT role, you might need to change the settings more
often than not. A frequently performed IT task is the reimaging of a computer.
The term refers to a disk image which is a copy of an operating system. So the
process of reimaging involves wiping and reinstalling an operating system. This
procedure is typically performed using a program that's stored on some external
device like a USB memory stick, or a CD ROM, or even a server accessible through
the network. To access these programs and perform the reimage, you'll need to
use the BIOS to tell the computer to boot up from that external device.