Remember when I said that a computer is a device that stores and processes data
by performing calculations? Whether you're creating an artificial intelligence
that can beat humans at chess or something more simple, like running a video
game, the more computing power you have access to, the more you can accomplish.
By the end of this lesson, you'll understand what a computer calculates, and
how. Let's look at this simple math problem. 0 +1 equals what? It only takes a
moment to come up with the answer 1, but imagine that you needed to do 100
calculations that were this simple. You could do it, and if you were careful,
you might not make any mistakes. Well, what if you needed to do 1,000 of these
calculations? How about 1 million?  How about 1 billion? This is exactly what a
computer does. A computer simply compares 1s and 0s, but millions or billions of
times per second. Wowza! The communication that a computer uses is referred to
as binary system, also known as base-2 numeral system. This means that it only
talks in 1s and 0s. You may be thinking, okay, my computer only talks in 1s and
0s. How do I communicate with it? Think of it like this. We use the letters of
the alphabet to form words and we give those words meaning. We use them to
create sentences, paragraphs, and whole stories. The same thing applies to
binary, except instead of A, B, C, and so on, we only have 0 and 1 to create
words that we give meaning to. In computing terms, we group binary into 8
numbers, or bits. Technically, a bit is a binary digit. Historically, we used 8
bits because in the early days of computing, hardware utilized the base-2
numeral system to move bits around. 2 to the 8th numbers offered us a large
enough range of values to do the computing we needed. Back then, any number of
bits was used, but eventually the grouping of 8 bits became the industry
standard that we use today. You should know that a group of 8 bits is referred
to as a byte. So a byte of zeroes and ones could look like 10011011. Each byte
can store one character, and we can have 256 possible values, thanks to the
base-2 system, 2 to the 8th. In computer talk, this byte could mean something
like the letter C. And this is how computer language was born. Let's make a
quick table to translate something a computer might see into something we'd be
able to recognize. What does the following translate to? Did you get hello?
Pretty cool, right? By using binary, we can have unlimited communication with
our computer. Everything you see on your computer right now, whether it's a
video, an image, text or anything else, is nothing more than a 1 or a 0. It is
important you understand how binary works. It is the basis for everything else
we'll do in this course, so make sure you understand the concept before moving
on.
