Get ready because in this video we're going to install a program called Git. Git
is a version control system that helps keep track of changes made to files and
directories. Like how some word processors today have a revision history
feature, if you didn't like something you wrote, you can just go back to a
previous version. First, we're going to grab the install program from Git's
website. We're going to download the 64-bit executable. Remember from an earlier
lesson that we're using a 64-bit CPU architecture. So we should install 64-bit
applications for better compatibility. Next up, you'll see the file extension
.exe. This is a little different than the text or image file extensions we've
seen up until now. exe is a file extension found in Windows for an executable
file. We'll learn more about this in a later lesson two. For now, just
double-click on this and it will ask us if we want to install the file. Voila,
that's it. Now you can start using it. Some program installations might ask you
to reboot. Make sure to do that since there might be some system files or
processes that also need to restart for your new software to work correctly. To
verify that you now have Git installed, you can navigate to Add or remove
programs. From here, you can see what applications are installed on the machine,
and there it is, Git version 2.14.1. Let's say you had an older version of Git
installed and you wanted to update it to the new version. Luckily, Windows makes
it easy for us to do just that. We can install it just like we did, and it'll
ask if we want to upgrade to the newest version. To remove software from
Windows, you can just search for the Add or remove programs setting. From there,
select the application you want to remove, and you'll see a button to Uninstall.
Let's go ahead and click this, and run through an uninstall of the software. It
asks us for an administrative password. We have safety guards in place to
prevent unauthorized users from installing or uninstalling software. We'll learn
more about this later, but for now, since I'm an administrator, I'm just going
to enter my password and uninstall the software. Once you uninstall software,
restart your computer so we can do the necessary cleanup to completely get rid
of it