We've mentioned IP addresses a lot in this course but we haven't actually gone
into detail about them. They are actually different versions of IP addresses.
The current Protocol, Internet Protocol version four or IPv4 is an address that
consists of 32 bits separated into four groups. Remember, 42 bits is four bytes
and one byte can be stored up to 256 values from 0 to 255. So IPv4 addresses,
can be something like 73.55.242.3. Even though it might seem like a lot of
possible IPv4 addresses, there are less than 4.3 billion IPv4 addresses. There
are way more than 4.3 billion websites out on the web today. Some IPv4 addresses
are even reserved for special purposes. So, the number of usable IP addresses is
even less. A device that wants to connect to the internet, needs to have an IP
address but devices around the world have already exceeded those numbers. So,
where have we been getting IP addresses? IP addresses have been able to keep up
with the amount of devices in the world, thanks to IPv6 or Internet Protocol
version six addresses. IPv6 addresses consist of a 128 bits, four times the
amount that IPv4 uses. Which means way more devices can have IP addresses. The
adoption of IPv6 addresses has been slow but steady. Eventually, you will start
seeing more and more IPv6 addresses in the wild. An example IPv4 for address can
be something like 172.14.24.1. But an IPv6 address can be something like what
you see here, quite a bit of a difference, don't you think? Here's an analogy
for how big this difference is between IPv4 and IPv6. With IPv6 there are 2 to
the 128 power possible IP addresses, 2 to the 128 power is an insanely huge
number. So huge, that scientists had trouble describing with words just how big
this number is. So, here's an analogy. Think of a grain of sand, if you scoop up
a handful, do you know how many grains you have in your hand? Probably a lot but
that is not even close to the number we are talking about. Now, take all the
grains of sand in the entire world, assuming there are roughly 7 and a half
times 10 to the 18th power grains of sand in the world. That still would not be
enough IPv6 addresses. Now, let us take all the sand from multiple earths, now
you are close to what that number would be. It is a crazy large number. Just
know that we will not be running out of IPv6 addresses anytime soon. Another
mitigation tool that we have been able to use is NAT or Network Address
Translation. This lets organizations use one public IP address and many private
IP addresses within the network. Think of NAT like a receptionist at a company.
You know what number to dial to get to the company and once you reach the
receptionist, he can transfer your call to one of the private numbers inside the
company. Now, instead of companies using hundreds of public IP addresses, they
can just use one IP address. Remember the routers we talked about earlier? One
task you might need to perform when you are an I.T. support specialist, is to
configure NAT on a router to facilitate communication between your company's
network and the outside world. There are lots of other limitations that we have
had to deal with. You'll learn more about them in the networking course. For
now, you should have a general understanding of why IPv4 is so limiting for us
today and how IPv6 helped solve that.