Hi, my name's Phelan Vendeville and I'm a Systems Engineer in the Site
Reliability Organization at Google. I'm really excited to be your instructor for
the next few lessons. Before we jump in, I'll kick things off by telling you a
little bit about myself. My passion for technology began in high school, which
was located in a geographically isolated part of California. This isolation
meant that technology and the internet played an important role in bringing the
outside world to students and connecting them with ideas and opportunities via
things like virtual field trips and promote learning. For example, I remember
preparing for the SATs through digital classroom sessions, which would have been
impossible to attend in person. After high school, I enlisted in the US Navy as
an Information Systems Technician responsible for maintaining computer and
network systems. I continued to witness the ways technology brings people
together. Whether that meant coordinating ship movements during training
exercises or connecting love ones on long deployments via video chat. Lots of
people use technologies in various ways every day, but relatively few understand
how it works. A career in IT can be challenging, as I can attest to personally.
I can still remember the horror I felt after blowing up the power supply of a
master ship's computer, by using the wrong voltage switch. But a career in IT
can be incredibly rewarding, when you can do things like recover irreplaceable
family photos from a failing hard drive. As an IT Support Specialist, you'll be
in a position to not only know how a given piece of technology functions, but
also how to help fix it when it breaks. This means you'll have a direct impact
on the flow of information going between people, which is pretty cool. I'm
excited to teach you about the third layer of computer architecture known as
software. Software is how we, as users, directly interact with our computer. The
operating system that we interact with is just software. The music programs,
word processors and more that we use every day are also software. But what
exactly is it? If the hardware is the physical stuff that you can pick up and
hold, software is the intangible instructions that tell the hardware what to do.
In the next lesson, we're going to deep dive more into what software is, how we
install it, and how it works.