We introduced the concept of an operating system in earlier lessons. But what is
it exactly? A lot of us hear the term operating system and think of the
interfaces of our desktops and phones like the menus, buttons, and backgrounds.
Technically, these are part of the operating system, but it's a little more
complex than that. An operating system is the whole package that manages our
computers resources and lets us interact with it. There are two main parts to an
operating system, the kernel and the user space. The kernel is the main core of
an operating system. It talks directly to our hardware and manages our systems
resources. As users, we don't interact with the kernel directly. Instead, we
interact with the second part of an operating system the, user space. The user
space is basically made up of everything outside the kernel. The users thinks
that we interact with directly like system programs, user interfaces, etcetera.
When we say operating system, we're talking about both the kernel and the user
space. There are hundreds of operating systems out there, but we'll focus on the
major ones used in IT; Windows, Mac, and Linux. The Windows OS is developed by
Microsoft and used widely in the business and consumer space. Most PCs you buy
come with windows as the default operating system. PC means personal computer,
which technically means a computer that one person uses. But in today's world,
PC is more commonly referred to as a Windows computer. So, we'll just refer to a
PC as a Windows computer from here. The Mac OS by Apple, is mainly used in the
consumer space. If you buy an Apple computer, it'll come with Mac OS preloaded.
The last operating system we'll dive into is the Linux operating system. Linux
is an open source operating system, which means its software is free to share,
modify, and distribute. Linux is used heavily in business infrastructure and in
the consumer space. Linux itself is actually a kernel developed by Linus
Torvalds. Because of the way it evolved, we call the Linux kernel the Linux
operating system. Today, Linux has become a huge community effort with
developers all over the world contributing to its success. Because Linux is open
source, lots of different organizations package their own version of it.
Operating systems like Windows or Macintosh on the other hand, are solely
developed by their respective companies. We call these different Linux OSes
distributions. Some common Linux distributions are Ubuntu, Debian, and Red Hat.
Another operating system that has started to gain popularity is Chrome OS, but
we won't go into detail on that one. You can read more about it in the
supplemental reading right after this video. We also won't go over any of the
operating systems used in mobile devices like Android OS, iOS, and Windows 10
mobile. But you should be aware that mobile phone operating systems are quickly
overtaking their desktop counterparts in terms of quantity. Mobile phone usage
around the world is more prevalent than desktop computers. You can read more
about this in a supplemental reading. But in this course, we're only going to
focus on the Windows and Linux operating systems since you'll most likely work
with them in IT support. One cool thing to call out is that Chrome OS and
Android OS both run the Linux kernel underneath the hood. So, there's a chance
you've already worked with Linux and don't even know it. There are lots of
operating systems out there and they all share common characteristics. If you're
able to understand the basic building blocks of one OS, you can apply that to
any operating system and understand how it works. In IT support, it's super
common to work with many different operating systems from desktop OSes to
smartphone OSes and more. Throughout the rest of this module, we're going to
learn what an operating system is. More specifically, we're going to learn about
the two components that make up an operating system, the kernel space and the
user space. Before we get there, let's do a rundown of the basics. The kernel
does file storage in file management. You can compare it to a physical office
file where we store data in paper form. A computer file is just data that we
store and a file can be anything, a word document, a picture, a song, literally
anything. A file system is how we manage these files just like in an office, we
use a system to store our files. We don't just put all our files on one cabinet,
that would be seriously messy. Instead, we organize those files in folders or
directories to make them easier to find. There are lots of different types of
file systems, which we'll cover more in depth in future videos. Another
important function of the kernel is process management. We have many programs
that we want to run on our system. To run them, we manage the order they run in,
how many resources they take up, how long they run, etcetera. Our kernel helps
us do this with its process management capabilities. For example, you've
probably used your computer to do several tasks at once. Maybe you write in a
text document while listening to music or playing a video. The process scheduler
is part of the kernel that makes this multitasking possible. It switches the
execution of each different process on the CPU faster than you can blink, and it
gives you the illusion that things are happening simultaneously. Next up is
memory management. Our kernel optimizes memory usage and make sure our
applications have enough memory to run. We won't get into too much detail right
now, so stay tuned for more on this in the next few videos. The last important
function that a kernel performs is input/output or I/O management. This is how
our kernel talks to external devices like disks, keyboards, networks,
connections, audio devices, and more. I/O management is anything that can give
us input or that we can use for output of data. If you've ever saved a file to
disk, click the mouse button, or use a microphone when video chatting with a
friend, you've got the kernel's ability to manage I/O to thank. And that's the
basic rundown of the main functions of the kernel; file management, process
management, memory management, and I/O management. Finally, we'll talk about the
other component of an operating system, the user space. The user space is
everything outside the kernel. These are the things that we interact with
directly like programs, such as text editors, music players, system settings,
user interfaces, etcetera. By the end of this module, you'll hopefully have a
solid understanding of all of these functions of an operating system. Let's
start by taking a deeper dive into the kernel's file management.