You've gained a lot of great foundational troubleshooting skills. But there is
some common pitfalls that you should try to avoid in order to be at the top of
your troubleshooting game. As an IT support specialist, you'll sometime
encounter the same issue over and over again. Before the next issue comes in,
you may find yourself using your muscle memory to fix the issue. Pitfall #1,
going into autopilot. Make sure you don't default to autopilot mode, moving
through issues out of habit and without careful thought. More often than not
there are small variables that change the problem you're seeing entirely. Ask
questions and gather data so you can fully understanding an issue. This takes
less time than having to redo some sloppy work you did in autopilot mode.
Pitfall #2, not finding the root cause. It's very easy to get distracted by
small problems that pop up. But it's super important to remember there's
probably a very big problem causing all these small problems. Spend a little
extra time investigating the issue instead of trying to fix all the small holes.
If you're trying do a quick fix, it's tempting to wipe a system and start from
scratch. This approach is kind of like using a hammer when a surgical scalpel
might be a more appropriate tool. Let's say a user isn't able to access a
particular website. Re-imaging the system isn't a great solve. It doesn't get to
the root cause, and it doesn't help further your own knowledge. Investigating
the problem of it, testing out possible issues and solutions incrementally, and
identifying the root cause can end up saving a lot of time and effort in the
end, and it feels really empowering as an IT support specialist. And with that,
you'll be able to go out in the real world and use your new skills to
methodically troubleshoot an issue.