Now that we've learned what the computer components are and how they work we're
going to assemble our very own computer, a full size desktop. Computers are
incredibly fundamental to the work of an IT support specialist. There used in
pretty much every aspect of the job. Aside from work, knowing how to build a
computer might inspire you to try all kinds of cool stuff. You could custom
build a gaming rig to play the most advanced game at the highest setting or like
me make a home media server for all you photos and videos. Knowing how to build
a computer is a skill that can be useful in lots of interesting ways. Before we
get started, let's lay down some ground rules for this ground up build, sorry, I
cannot help myself. We should think about electrostatic discharge and try to
prevent unwanted static from harming our very expensive components. Have you
ever rubbed yourself socks on a carpet and then accidentally zap someone? That's
pretty harmless, but if you that to your new motherboard, you completely destroy
it. So how do we prevent static discharge? We can go about this in two ways, we
can touch in our two device that's plugged in but not powered on. FYI, you
should do this every couple of minutes when assembling a new computer. Another
option is to wear an anti-static wristband like the one I have here, let me get
it. You connect the end of the clip to a non-painted metal surface like your
computer. And then you separate on to your hands and voila your done. While we
are on the subject of anti-static safety, I want to call out that when you buy
computer parts, they'll come in anti-static bags to prevent accidental static
electricity. Be sure to keep them inside the bags until you need to install them
on your computer. Now, let's get making this computer, we'll start by laying
down the foundation of our computer, the motherboard. Remember, there are lots
of different form factors for motherboards and you want to make sure the one you
purchase fits your computer case. We purchased the full size desktop cased and
have a full size ATX motherboard. On the motherboard there are a lot of screw
holes which coincide with the holes in the desktop case too. You want to match
up the holes on the motherboard to the holes on the desktop. Once you figure out
which holes to use screw in standoffs. Standoffs are used to raise and attach
your motherboard to the case. In this instance our case has built in standoffs.
Let's start start adding on components. Let's start by adding our components in.
We'll start with the CPU, so let's take that out of our anti-static bag. You
want to be very careful with these because they're very expensive, and you don't
want to drop them. Once we've taken out the bag, let's line up the CPU with the
motherboard's socket. Something to note is this marker right here. This has to
align with the CPU socket on the motherboard. Also don't forget to make sure you
get compatible CPU that fit your motherboard. We have a LGA CPU and an
LGA-compatible motherboard socket. So let's go ahead and align the correct
orientation of the CPU and secure it in place like this. So like mentioned
before, you want to make sure that the pointers on the CPU and the socket are
aligned. The easy part is putting the CPU in. The fun part is securing this,
just note that when you secure the CPU in the socket you do need to use a bit of
force so it's tightly secured in. Perfect, so now the CPU is secured in the
socket. Now that our CPU is in place we need to add our heat sink on top of it.
The heat sink is used to dissipate heat from our CPU. I want to show you some
cool things. This part right here, this is what our CPU relies on to stay cool.
It takes the heat from there and then uses this fan to blow it out. Before we
attach the heat sink, we need to apply an even amount of thermal paste. Let me
get that, this is the thermal paste. Thermal paste is used to better connect our
CPU and heat sink. So the heat transfers from to the other better. To get
started, apply a dab of thermal paste and spread evenly with a flat object. Lets
do that on our CPU right here. So first thing that you want to do is slowly
apply a slight dab on the CPU like so. Then with the flat object, apply the
thermal paste evenly throughout your CPU to go half way right here, half way
right here, Half way right here, and then half way right here. Just make sure
that it spread evenly throughout the CPU. You may have to do this multiple times
to get this correct. Okay, so once you have that in place, you're going to take
your heat sink and then you're going to press it against the CPU. And something
to note is that these screws right here, they align with the CPU socket. So that
can guide you while you put the heat sink on. Great, once you have all four
sockets aligned, go ahead and get your screw driver and then tighten down the
sockets. So one thing to do, is to make sure that you screw the opposite sides
first so you know that the heat sink is attached securely. So one thing I like
to do again is just kind of go over my screws to make sure everything is
tightened securely. Great, now that our screws are tightly on in our heat sink
secured to the CPU You have to plug this Molex to the motherboard. This is
important because this is what controls the fan speed via the motherboard.
Perfect. So now, you've fully installed and connected your CPU to the
motherboard. Next, let's install our RAM. Located DIMM slots on your
motherboard. So, these are the DIMM slots like we discussed before. I have four
slots available here and I have four RAM sticks. Let me pick those up. These are
my RAM sticks, and of course, they're in my anti-static bag Let's take them out.
So, as I mentioned before, this build, we're going to use DDR3 RAM. All right,
one thing I like to do before I install my RAM is to make sure that I align
these slots with my RAM slots so that way I'm not going to be forcing those in
when it's time to install. So, if you see right here, your slots are right in
the middle so something I do is before I put it in, just visually make sure that
you got this right and then align the rest of your RAM sticks to the same
position like this. You just want to go like this. Like this. And like this.
That way, you're not going to be damaging your pins if you pick your RAM sticks
up and accidentally force it in. So now we've got that, we're going to put this
in this slot right here. Line up the pins correctly and push in the RAM until
you hear it click. You'll know it's secure when both sides of the RAMs are
locked in place. And there's something else you should know. Your slots right
here, they are both black and white. We're going to stick to using the white
slots. This too. And we're also going to put this one right here. There you go.
You've securely fastened your RAM inside your motherboard. Next, we have our
hard drive. In this example, we're using an SSD SATA hard drive instead of a
HDD. We just need to use one SATA cable to connect it to our motherboard. So,
first, I'm going to go ahead and slot this in this cage This is going to vary
from case to case, but this one's going to be easy. All we have to, we just
slide it in like so. And normally you will hear a click, [SOUND] Like that. Once
that's in, we just need to use one SATA cable to connect our SSD to our
motherboard. Let me go and get that. So here we go. Here's a SATA cable. So what
I'm going to do, is I'm going to connect this end to our SSD. I'm going to
connect this end to our motherboard. There we go, it's in. Remember, SATA cables
can only go in one way. So now that we have our SSD installed, let's go ahead
and install our case fan. And this is how this looks like. One thing to note is
the small x. You're going to go ahead and find a label on your motherboard that
says, rear fans. Not all motherboards have this, but in this example, we do have
that, so just to note. We get those into the grooves, there you go. My fan's
installed, and now I'm going to go ahead and attach this to the Molex. There we
go, now my fan is attached to my motherboard. For best practice, you want to
create a wind tunnel that takes in air, blows it over your components, and then
pushes it all out back. Check out how our heat sink has a fan on it too. That's
pretty normal, since our CPU generates a lot of heat, and we want to help cool
it off as best as we can. We're almost done. Now, we're going to connect our
power and test to see if everything's working. So let's grab our power supply.
Here we are. First, let's secure our power supply to our case. Be careful not to
damage the motherboard when you install it. What you're going to do is you're
going to put this in slowly like that, And then just slide it in. There you go.
One thing I like to do, is I'd like to put my cables all the way out to the
side, so like I mentioned before, it's not going to go ahead and damage the
motherboard. So now, I'm going to go ahead and start securing our power supply.
Its always fun getting in. There we go So as you can see, I normally like to go
and start with my fingers, so it's easier to get in. And once I put all my
screws in, I'm going to go ahead and use my screw driver and fasten it, tighten
that. There you go. So let's go ahead and tighten our screws right here.
[INAUDIBLE] And four. Great. So now, we've secured our power supply to the case
so it's not going to move anywhere. And just another note, you can also install
the power supply before adding it to the motherboard, depending on how your case
is laid out. Lets go back to our mess of connectors. There are a few things I
would like to highlight. This big one right here, this is the one that powers
our motherboard. Another one that we have, it's more of a legacy one is this
four pin Molex. These connectors were used heavily before SATA came out. Now, we
use these connectors to power majority of the SATA devices today. Most modern
machines today will probably use SATA power connectors for your hard drives so
that it may come with Molex to SATA adapters. Now, it's time for the fun part.
First, let's go ahead and connect our power supply to our motherboard. So that's
this big pin as we discussed earlier. It's going to go in right here. And plug
that in like so. Next, we're going to go ahead and power the CPU, with this A
pin Molex right here. It's [INAUDIBLE] pretty tight, but you should be able to
get it in. There you go. So what we just did was we have the power supply that
is powering the motherboard and the CPU. So now that we've hooked up the cable
to our CPU and motherboard, the next thing that we need to hook up are these
cables that are sitting in our case. This is going to vary from case to case,
but let's go through it. Some of these cables are used for your case's buttons
and lights. So for this one, I'm going to plug these in. Okay. Okay, so our case
cables are now secured to our motherboard. One good idea is sometimes your
motherboard will come with some guides. This will help you fasten your cables to
your motherboard so it's clean and tight on your case. I'm just going to go
ahead and do that right here. Now that we have our cables securely fastened to
our case, let's don't forget one more thing, our graphics card. We'll need that
so that we can upload video to our monitor. We're going to plug this graphics
card into our PCI-Express slot on our motherboard. Just like the RAM, you are
going to put a little bit of pressure when you insert this in. So don't feel bad
by putting a little bit of pressure and you'll hear a click like this. Once
you've done it, you can tightly secure it to your case. This is going to vary
from case to case. And there you go, your graphics card has been installed. All
right, I think that's it. Let's cover up our computer. First make sure you take
your anti-static brace right away. Get our case. Put that in like so, and just
plug, and that's it. There you go, we finally built our machine. Last but not
least, let's connect our monitor, keyboard, and mouse to the desktop. So first,
let's get our keyboard. What we're going to do is we're going to connect this
USB to the USB port on our desktop. Then we'll going to get our mouse, do the
same thing. Connect this to our USB port. And then finally we're going to go
ahead and connect our monitor. For this monitor, we're going to go ahead and use
a display port cable. I want to connect one end to our desktop, like so. Next, I
want to plug this into my monitor. All right, this is the most interesting part.
Let's see if all this works. So I'm going to power it on. I got a blue light,
which is good. And of course it's going to vary from system to system. Let's see
if something shows up on the monitor. So computer is booting up. Let's see, okay
it looks like the monitor is receiving signal, which is good. There we have
messages, success, there we go, it's working, perfect. If you're having issues
with your computer not starting up, that's okay. Check that your power supply
can supply the correct amount of wattage or make sure your connectors are in the
right place. What's this? Non-system disk or disk error, replace and strike any
key when ready. It looks like our disk doesn't have an operating system to boot
into, no worries. That's what we'll be discussing in the next set of lessons.
We'll learn what an operating system is and what the main operating systems are
and how to install one. Well good job, you've got your computer up and running
and the monitor is receiving signal, so that's it. Let's take a moment and think
about what you just did, not only did you learn about each component of a
computer, but you figured out how they work individually and then we built one
together. It's quite an accomplishment. For your next assignment, we build a
widget that will let you assemble a computer digitally, putting all the
different parts together or if you have all the computer parts already, you can
assemble one in real life and then write a short review process of how you did
it. If you get stuck, don't worry, go back and review the different videos
covering the various components. I know you can do it. I've had lots of fun
teaching you all about hardware and don't worry, we'll meet again soon when you
make it to the system administration IT infrastructure services course. Next up,
my good friend, Cindy Quach, is going to introduce you to operating systems.
Operating systems are absolutely essential in IT considering that without them
none of this hardware we've discussed would be able to accomplish anything. Tell
Cindy I said hi.