The last operating system we'll go over is Apple's Mac OS. We won't go into too
many details about how to use this OS. Instead, we'll focus on the ins and outs
of Windows and Linux OSs'. But if you know one operating system, you'll be able
to navigate any operating system. Fortunately, all Apple computers come with Mac
OS pre-installed, so we'll just go through the important parts of the operating
system. Okay, here's the desktop environment for our Mac. At the bottom here,
you'll see a doc with shortcuts to your applications. In the top right, you've
got the system information like the time and date, network connectivity, battery
life, if you have a laptop and some other quick settings. In the top left here,
you can see the Apple icon. This bar will change menu options depending on what
application is open. But if you click on the Apple icon, you'll see more
options. You can tell your computer to Sleep, Restart and power off from here.
The most important thing we want to look at is at the System Preferences menu
item. This launches our system settings. From here, we can change any of our
computer settings like setting the orientation of our mouse scroll, adding and
removing users. Setting up printers, changing our screen savers, adding
Bluetooth devices and more. I'm going to click on the desktop now. You'll notice
our top-left setting changed from our System Preferences to Finder. Finder is
the file manager for all Macs. If you open a new Finder window, you can navigate
the files and folders on your Mac. If you right click on a file, or if you're
using a Mac laptop you can use a two-finger click on a file to view more
information and perform lots of different tasks. The Mac, which is a completely
different operating system than Windows or Linux, operates in a very similar
way, with similar menu options. Wow, you've really come a long way. You've been
introduced to the major operating systems used today, gotten to play around with
the system, and even performed some common tasks. Nice work. It's important in
any IT role to know the ins and outs of operating systems, because you'll be
interacting with them every single day. We have a separate course that teaches
you all the essentials you need to navigate the Windows and Linux OSs'. But for
now, pat yourself on the back. You just took the first step towards
understanding OSs'. Installing, managing and navigating operating systems, are
all tasks that you'll have to do daily as an IT support specialist. You may even
find yourself doing this for hundreds, if not thousands of machines in your
fleet one day. Before we send you to the next module, we have two assessments
for you. Which will test you on creating files, with both Windows and Linux. You
can always go back and review the videos again, if you need a refresher.
Otherwise, I'll sign off for now, and we'll meet again in Course Three,
Operating Systems and You, Becoming a Power User. In the next module, you'll
meet my friend and colleague Victor Escobido who's going to dig into the
Internet and networking.